feat(cli,sdk): qwen serve daemon (Stage 1) (#3889)
QwenLM/qwen-code: docs/users/qwen-serve.md

- **Reconnect-safe streaming** — SSE with `Last-Event-ID` reconnect lets a client drop and pick up exactly where it left off (within the ring's replay window).
- **First-responder permissions** — when the agent asks for permission to run a tool, every connected client sees the request; whichever client answers first wins.

## Quickstart

### 1. Start the daemon (loopback, no auth)

```bash
cd your-project/
qwen serve
# → qwen serve listening on http://127.0.0.1:4170 (mode=http-bridge)
# → qwen serve: bearer auth disabled (loopback default). Set QWEN_SERVER_TOKEN to enable.
```

The default bind is `127.0.0.1:4170`. Bearer auth is **off** on loopback so local development "just works".

### 2. Sanity-check it

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:4170/health
# → {"status":"ok"}

curl http://127.0.0.1:4170/capabilities
# → {"v":1,"mode":"http-bridge","features":["health","capabilities","session_create",...]}
```

### 3. Open a session

```bash
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:4170/session \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"cwd":"'"$PWD"'"}'
# → {"sessionId":"<uuid>","workspaceCwd":"…","attached":false}
```

> A second client posting to `/session` with the same `cwd` gets `"attached": true` — they're now sharing the agent.

Author: **[Suggestion]** Quickstart step 4 (`POST /prompt`, blocking) runs before step 5 (`GET /events`, SSE). Users executing in order will miss all streaming events because the prompt completes before they subscribe. Swap steps 4 and 5, or add a note to run subscription in a separate terminal.

_— DeepSeek/deepseek-v4-pro via Qwen Code /review_

### 4. Send a prompt

```bash
SESSION_ID="<from step 3>"
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:4170/session/$SESSION_ID/prompt \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"prompt":[{"type":"text","text":"What does src/main.ts do?"}]}'
# → {"stopReason":"end_turn"}
```

### 5. Subscribe to the event stream

```bash
curl -N http://127.0.0.1:4170/session/$SESSION_ID/events
# → id: 1
#   event: session_update
#   data: {"sessionUpdate":"agent_message_chunk","content":{"type":"text","text":"…"}}
```

The stream emits `session_update` (LLM chunks, tool calls, usage), `permission_request` (tool needs approval), `permission_resolved` (someone voted), `model_switched`, `model_switch_failed`, `session_died`, and a terminal `client_evicted` if your queue overflows.

## Authentication

For anything beyond loopback, you **must** pass a bearer token:

```bash
export QWEN_SERVER_TOKEN="$(openssl rand -hex 32)"
qwen serve --hostname 0.0.0.0 --port 4170
# → boot refuses without QWEN_SERVER_TOKEN
```

Clients then send `Authorization: Bearer $QWEN_SERVER_TOKEN` on every request.

```bash
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $QWEN_SERVER_TOKEN" http://your-host:4170/health

> ```

Author: **[Suggestion]** Auth verification example uses `GET /health` which bypasses authentication (per protocol spec: "No auth required even when a token is configured"). Users get `200` regardless of token correctness — false sense of security. Use `GET /capabilities` instead.

_— DeepSeek/deepseek-v4-pro via Qwen Code /review_

- **`--hostname 0.0.0.0` requires a token** — boot refuses without one.
- **`LOOPBACK_BINDS` includes IPv6** — `::1` and `[::1]` count as loopback for the no-token rule.
- **Host header allowlist** — on loopback binds the daemon also checks `Host:` matches `localhost:port` / `127.0.0.1:port` / `[::1]:port` / `host.docker.internal:port` (case-insensitive per RFC 7230 §5.4) to defend against DNS rebinding.
- **CORS denies any browser Origin** — returns `403` JSON.
- **Spawned `qwen --acp` child runs with an allowlisted environment** — only HOME / PATH / USER / LOGNAME / LANG / LC\_\* / TMPDIR / TEMP / TMP / NODE_PATH (plus Windows essentials) are inherited. API keys / DB passwords / OAuth tokens / cloud credentials in the daemon's env are **not** passed to the agent — prompt-injected shell tools can't read what isn't there.
- **Per-subscriber bounded SSE queues** — a slow client that overflows its queue gets a `client_evicted` terminal frame and is closed; one stuck consumer can't pin the daemon.
- **Graceful shutdown** — SIGINT/SIGTERM drain the agent children before closing the listener (10s deadline per child).

## Multi-session & remote deployment

> Each `qwen serve` process binds **one workspace**. To handle multiple workspaces or multiple users at scale you spawn multiple daemon instances behind an external orchestrator. That orchestrator (multi-tenancy / OIDC / Quota / Audit / k8s) is **out of scope** for the qwen-code project — see issue [#3803](https://github.com/QwenLM/qwen-code/issues/3803) "External Reference Architecture" for the design pointers.

Author: **[Critical]** "Each `qwen serve` process binds **one workspace**" contradicts the protocol reference, where `POST /session` accepts arbitrary absolute `cwd` paths and `GET /workspace/:id/sessions` accepts any `:id`. The daemon can manage sessions for any workspace path.

```suggestion
A single `qwen serve` process can manage sessions for any workspace path passed via `cwd`. To handle multiple workspaces or multiple users at scale you spawn multiple daemon instances behind an external orchestrator.
```

_— DeepSeek/deepseek-v4-pro via Qwen Code /review_

| `--port <n>`         | `4170`      | TCP port. `0` = OS-assigned ephemeral port.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--hostname <addr>`  | `127.0.0.1` | Bind interface. Anything beyond loopback requires a token.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `--token <str>`      | —           | Bearer token. Falls back to `QWEN_SERVER_TOKEN` env var (with leading/trailing whitespace stripped — handy for `$(cat token.txt)`).                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

> | `--max-sessions <n>` | `20`        | Cap on concurrent live sessions. New `POST /session` requests that would spawn a fresh child return `503` (with `Retry-After: 5`) when the cap is hit; attaches to existing sessions are NOT counted. Set to `0` to disable. Sized for single-user / small-team usage; raise it if your deployment has the RAM/FD headroom (~30–50 MB per session). |

Author: `--max-sessions` 文档已经清楚说了"attaches 不计入",赞 👍。

建议再补一行说明完整限流栈,让 operators 一眼看明白:

```
Note: this is the **new-child** cap. Three other layers also limit load:
- listener-level: `server.maxConnections=256` (runQwenServe.ts) bounds raw TCP connections
- per-session: EventBus subscriber cap defaults to 64 SSE clients per session
- per-subscriber: 256-frame backlog before `client_evicted` eviction
```

这样 operators 知道高并发部署要看哪几个旋钮。
